# Standards and Decisions

Disagree with something you saw in the project or the files and want to understand why? Just want to
read up on my thoughts on Js/PWA development? Either way, you're in the right place.

## Preface

When or if you consider forking/cloning the project and use it as a base for any project, you can
(obviously) disregard/alter any of the standards written here. Just be sure to keep this file
up-to-date with your own coding standards. It's easy to lose your way after a while (or in a team).

## Folder Structure

All configuration files live outside of any folders, in the root of the project to avoid pathing
conflicts of any kind.

Any configuration that is environment- or IDE-specific is not to be included in the repository as it
is the responsibility/choice of each developer. This includes the `.editorconfig` file as well - if
linting tools are provided, then "any" editor can be configured to use them - no need to duplicate
code/rules or restrain the developers. Any files that can be generated by the application are to be
kept out of the repository as well.

All generated folders live in the root of the project for easy accessibility by internal or external
tools. Examples of these types of folders are: `coverage` (for code coverage collection),
`node_modules` (obviously) and `public` (the generated assets folder).

The `config` folder contains any and all files pertaining to building and configuring the
environment for the application. This includes the build configuration for webpack (and its
environments) and any environment-specific global runtime variables.

The `src` folder contains only (1) actual application code, (2) assets to be copied or used during
the build process and (3) testing functions (helpers) to be used when testing the application.
Inside the `src` folder, you'll find 3 folders that contain these types of code/information
respectively. They are (1) `app`, (2) `static` and (3) `testing`.

## Dependencies

All project dependencies are to be written as `~MAJOR.MINOR`. Patch versioning is only acceptable
where an incompatibility or breaking change exists between two patch versions.

### Example 1

Project needs `webpack` which is in version `3.9.1`.

In the `package.json` file the dependency must be written as `"webpack": "~3.9"` so that any and all
patches/bugfixes to `3.9` are applied to the project (`3.9.1`, `3.9.2`, ...) but no (possible)
breaking changes (`3.10.0`) are added automatically.

### Example 2

Project needs at least `webpack` `3.9.1` due to an impactful bugfix on that specific patch version.

In the `package.json` file the dependency must be written as `"webpack": "~3.9 >=3.9.1"` for the
same reasons described above.

## Code

### Structure

Any module or submodule is contained inside its own folder. No other information, asset, module or
component is to be included in that folder.

Any component or module that is a direct child of the `app` folder (i.e. files inside the `app`
folder) is a starting point for the application. In a PWA, there is only one.

Any component and module should have (when applicable): the module code (`.js`), the style
(`.scss`), the unit test (`.spec.js`) and the export file (`index.js`). This is intended for several
reasons:
  - a component/module should be used as a blackbox
  - non-tested components/modules are easily spotted
  - adding/deleting a component/module is a clean and self-contained action

File `name`s, and `type`s should be done in kebab-case. File naming rule is the following:
`[name](.type?)(.spec?).[ext]`. Examples:
  - `example.component.js` - component named `ExampleComponent`
  - `example.style.scss` - style to be imported by `ExampleComponent`
  - `example.component.spec.js` - unit tests for `ExampleComponent`
  - `my-module.js` - module named `MyModule`
  - `my-module.spec.js` - unit tests for `MyModule`

Note that `index.js` is exempt from these rules as it is the default name and extension used on
javascript for "importing a folder". This file should only import and export the component or module
it pertains to.

Any cluster of similar modules should be grouped by folder inside `app`. Typical examples are:
  - `containers` - components that hold state information and control its flow
  - `components` - _dumb_ components that receive information only
  - `models` - models/transformers/factories for objects
  - `services` - modules for calculations, API requests, ...
  - `states` - modules that contain the application's state/information

Note that inside these folders, similar modules can and _should_ also be grouped according to their
relativeness or usefulness.

### Style/Standards

#### Components and Modules

All imports follow these rules:
  - Order is: packages first, then project modules, and local modules last. There is always a blank
  line separating these 3 types of imports
  - Deconstructed import objects are written alphabetically. Types or interfaces (example: in
  typescript or when using Js PropTypes) are imported last when deconstructing.

No module or component is imported or exported through the `default` mechanism. Airbnb coding
standards are intended for typical Js/node packages but they do not take into account the volatility
of code, features, requirements and dependencies that a frontend project has to deal with. For more
information on the subject, see [this issue][link-eslint-issue] and [PR][link-eslint-pr]. If there
needs to be a default import (for example due to a restriction of an external library), make sure
there is also a matching named import in order to keep code consistency.

All other linting rules from `airbnb-base` must be followed as it is the chosen standard for this
project.

Disabling rules on `eslint` or `stylelint` should only be done in cases where there is no other
feasible option. When disabling a rule, disable it only for the next line of code with
`eslint-disable-next-line` for 3 main reasons:
  - it is a failsafe to not have a rule disabled on the entire project due to forgetfulness or bad
  code reviews
  - never adds to the line char count
  - adding/removing them results in simpler diffs

Note that if 3 or more lines in a row require the disabling of a rule, use `eslint-disable` and
`eslint-enable`.

Naming convention is as follows: class names, interfaces and typing in general are to be written in
PascalCase, objects and singletons in camelCase and constants in UPPER_SNAKE_CASE.

#### Unit Tests

Unit tests can generally be divided in 2 categories:
  - whitebox - for testing, for example, a service to fetch data from an API
  - blackbox - for testing, for example, a visual component of a web page

Regardless of what type of test you are performing, any and all external dependencies (parents and
children) should be mocked - auto-mocked by `jest` if possible.

##### Service Unit Tests

Testing a service or module is done in a whitebox style, where every public function is tested
independently and where external dependencies are mocked (sibling function mocking should be done on
an as needed basis). This is done in order to verify that every function of the service/module
behaves according to its specifications.

The first `describe` on a service test should be written as the name of the exported service;
second-layer `describe`s should represent function names and should be prefaced by a `#`; following
`describe`s should be written as if prefaced by the word `when`. When writing `it`s, they should
start with a present tense verb and should be read as if prefaced by the word `it`. (See
`src/app/services/helper/index.spec.js` for an example)

##### Component Unit Tests

Testing a visual component is done is a blackbox style, where the only thing that matters is the
result on the page (i.e. what is seen by the user). That said, the tests focus only on testing the
output on the page. This is done because changing the library/framework, a dependency, parent/child
component cannot majorly impact the unit tests.

The first `describe` on a component test should be written as the name of the exported component;
following `describe`s should be written as if prefaced by the word `when`. When writing `it`s, they
should start with a present tense verb and should be read as if prefaced by the word `it`. (See
`src/app/components/home/home.component.spec.js` for an example)

##### Coverage

Anything lower than 100% test coverage is not acceptable. If a component or module cannot be fully
tested, then it should be refactored - testability is a measurement of code maintainability.

[link-eslint-issue]: https://github.com/benmosher/eslint-plugin-import/issues/889
[link-eslint-pr]: https://github.com/benmosher/eslint-plugin-import/pull/936
